so welcome everyone we're going to go
ahead and get started now my name is
Peyton I'm the head of patient care at
heel Navigator where we help cancer
patients find integrative and
alternative care options
um it's a pleasure to be your
administrator and moderator today for
today's webinar and during this webinar
we will discuss the exciting topics of
repurposed medication we'll cover the
latest research on repurposed drugs and
how they can help cancer patients at all
stages additionally we'll be allowing
time for questions that we have received
before and during the webinar as you're
submitting those questions now so thank
you we'll also do our best to address as
many questions as possible during the
time that we have during this you can
use a chat feature to send in your
questions or just submit through the Q a
function as well and we'll do our best
to answer them during this session
so now I'm pleased to introduce our
speakers Dr Charles meakin and Travis
Christopherson
Dr Charles meakin he completed his
oncology training and radiation oncology
at Stanford University Hospital in 1989
and worked for 30 years in the large
Hospital Cancer Center Arena I'm gonna
head and turn off my camera now so you
can see them
upon retiring
from this work in early 2019 he returned
to school to study business startups and
metabolism and concurrently served as a
chief medical officer of care oncology
us until about
mid-2022 he started making metabolic
care with Travis Christopherson in late
2022 and lives in Charlotte North
Carolina region and Northern Florida
with his wife Lindsay and kids nearby
he's also licensed in 45 States here in
America
Travis Christopherson is the founder of
the foundation for metabolic cancer
therapies A Research Foundation that is
funding key research and metabolic
cancer therapies he also authored
tripping over the truth and National
bestseller that illuminated the emerging
role that metabolism plays in cancer
development and treating
we hope you enjoy this webinar and find
it informative
thank you Peyton for the introduction
and thanks to the whole team at heel
heel Navigators I just put this together
um I'll start off by
just telling the story Chuck and I met
oh many years ago at the conference
called the metabolic Health Summit
um he was a practicing radiation
oncologist at the time
I had finished my Master's thesis on
cancer Theory and had written the book
tripping over the truth and I was
passionately interested in this notion
that metabolism played an important role
in not only cancer initiation but cancer
Therapies
um from there we went on to work
together at care oncology and now we can
metabolic care
there's many things that I admire about
Chuck I'm if I call him Chuck it's just
because we know each other too well I
should be saying Dr Meek and but
um foremost I think what it is is he has
this continuing passion for for Learning
and that's when we met at the conference
we were both there for to learn more
about what can be done to help cancer
patients
um
and I think we're both passionately
motivated by this idea of a fourth
branch of oncology called metabolic
oncology as we know there's three
branches radiation oncology surgery
oncology which has been around for over
100 years in medical oncology which
really got initiated right around World
War II and this idea of a fourth branch
is what we're going to talk about today
and when we say metabolism or metabolic
what we're primarily referring to is
the way your body the way cells in your
body generate energy and there's a very
distinct difference between the way
cancer cells do this and the way normal
healthy cells do this
um both Chuck and I think would agree
that the data really is screaming
um for this idea of a fourth branch of
oncology called metabolic oncology so
the way we structured this is um
I'm going to ask a series of questions
to just give everybody a really a
general introduction about metabolic
oncology what that entails
repurposed medications which act
metabolically and to start off
um I think we'll we'll introduce Chuck a
little more
so uh Chuck you were a practicing radio
radiation oncologist for over 30 years
and I believe you had retired at the
time and then you you go back in in 2019
in the care oncology so what what
triggered that re-emergence into
oncology
well well first of all thank you for
being my partner Travis I appreciate
that every day thank you for those kind
words and Peyton and Hill Navigator
teams thank you for setting this up I I
like our partnership and our friendship
um it actually you had a big part to do
that would do with it and so um it came
about when we were at a sort of
alternative cancer meeting in in Florida
and you presented the work on the care
oncology project with glioblastoma and
for 30 years I was sort of the Curious
oncologist that really tried to add
lifestyle strategies to cancer patients
I knew we weren't doing a good job on on
that end of the therapy and you showed a
slide where I think was 97 glioblastoma
patients not an ideal bunch of patients
only about a third of us a third of them
couldn't have surgery for their
diagnosis and that's a big part of the
therapy and you showed how the median
survival was 28 months and I thought
about my practice and I carefully
followed people
on this cancer especially and nobody
seemed to do that well nobody seemed to
do half that well and this sort of
filled the missing link that you know
the energy metabolism
cancer cells is critically important
we're more neglecting that and that's
when we started communicating and and
working together and ultimately I was
thrilled when I found something that
really fit my alignment so thank you and
um it's been a fun it's been a fun
Journey because this has been fun
so let's let's give an introduction to
this when we talk about medical oncology
what what these sort of General strategy
of what we're calling metabolic oncology
is yeah and thank you for beautifully
framing that you know you know I I find
metabolic oncology in general and this
is not Webster it's it's sort of how I
would like to communicate it to you
patience and thank you for being here is
that metabolic oncology is a strategy
that aims to change the environment of
the body where cancer cells live the the
energy provisions and the substrate
Provisions or the metabolic environment
and thus by increasing the
um and by doing that it increases the
efficiency of standard of care therapies
for instance um by using you know
environment strategies that reduce
metabolic substrates uh that you know
reduce inflammation that is caused by
different lifestyle issues and treatment
issues by reducing the availability of
glucose glutamine methionine and other
substrates you basically stress and
strain cancer cell metabolism so by
diminishing these say these membrane
influx pumps cancer cells can't you know
bring in
um certain substrates they can't kick
out chemotherapy they you know they
start to get strained so just like a
human being trying to fight off
infection if you're Sleepless for three
nights you're going to be less more
vulnerable to virtually anything and
that's what sort of the metabolic
oncology strategy is is to increase the
vulnerability of those cancer cells
and beauty is by these strategies you
also reinforce or fortify our normal
cells our normal cells default metabolic
strategy or functionality is is through
some level of fasting and sort of the
sort of the UN you know unfed state so
actually you you make cancer cells more
vulnerable you make normal cells less
vulnerable or more resistant to the side
effects of chemotherapy to the problems
with muscle loss to the you know the
acute and long-term side effects so it's
a win-win and so in your toolbox of
metabolic therapies one of the topics we
have and what we're going to talk more
about tonight is repurposed drugs and
secondly I would say also in that
toolbox are other very simple things
that are very safe like how you eat your
your mix of macros you know
carbohydrates versus protein versus fats
um some intermittent fasting some
targeted fasting before chemotherapy
um exercise exercise
you know increases outcomes with all
chronic disease and really helps with
cancer especially resistance training
other things too like optimizing your
sleep and your your immune function and
then supportive therapies that we we
frequently talk about in our Clinic
hyperbaric oxygen uh saunas you know
heat therapies things like that so
there's a big toolbox repurposed drugs
is a big part of that well that's what
we're going to talk about tonight
yeah that that you brought up that
beautiful differentiation when you put
your metabolism in that state and the
the study that always sticks in my mind
is when Walter Longo had the patients
fast I think 42 to 72 hours before
chemotherapy and the side effects the
objective side effects that were very
measurable or diminished to almost
almost zero yeah so it's very powerful
too so let's talk about you brought up
repurposed drugs Dr meek and let's talk
about what role they play
yeah so repurpose drugs that sounds like
you're buying some old drug from uh use
used drugstore now repurposed drugs just
the term that says you know many drugs
were you know came to Market on a single
indication and they you know study was
done it got utilized and um and then
over time they went off patent and
became generic and as they're used more
and more secondary side of side effects
that sometimes are good effects come
about and so population studies or
epidemiologic Studies have shown that
you know some of these impacts are very
favorable
um and and then when these drugs have
this unique benefit identified generally
drug companies are not real interested
in trying to re-certify them or you know
get a new patent for this new use so
they're kind of in this drug Purgatory
or you know a lot of a lot of
opportunity is still left on the table
so to speak
um most drugs work molecularly and have
maybe three to six distinct molecular
Pathways of activity so it's not unusual
that we see you know some of these
potential favorable impacts one of the
the kind of Sentinel moment for me was
about 15 years ago on a tumor board when
I had read the article on
use the the patients at MD Anderson who
used who happened to be on Metformin for
their type 2 diabetes which usually
meant 15 years ago they had pretty
severe diabetes they actually had a
two-fold or twice the complete response
rate when chemotherapy was given for
breast cancer to shrink the cancer to
make it more amenable to a lumpectomy
versus mastectomy and I remember talking
about that in the tumor board everybody
looked at me like
why are you talking about this but I
knew there was a signal there there was
a smoke signal that showed that
something's going on it was paradoxical
because we would have expected those
people to do worse you know 45 percent
haven't complete tumor clearance
versus 15 to 20 percent
in in 450 400 to 500 patients
it's a pretty strong impact so that's
where it started to itch for me that I
started following this literature
um
this book's pleased to see that the
European oncologist started looking at
this more intensely they have a project
called the redo project it's kind of
like redo
um
dot org
and it's got 369 drugs that they've
looked at they look at nine validation
points everything from like Petri
studies on looking at cells only to sort
of animal studies to phase one studies
phase two studies phase three studies
you know and then population studies and
so in imaging studies and so they have
nine points of validation and um
uh you know most of our drugs have seven
eight or nine
positive findings on those nine points
what I was going to mention though is 92
percent of these drugs are generic so
once again they're in sort of this drug
purgatory
by the way what do you do 60 of the
times when someone takes a medication
they're using it for an off-label use so
our strategy is not
you know unusual you know a lot of
diseases are being treated for off-label
use and so that's just the nature of the
care of patients in this country so once
again there's a great opportunity there
and we're trying to bring it to public
awareness
yeah so let so I'm sure the question you
get
um asked a lot within this realm of
repurposed drugs is how do we know they
work
how do we measure that sort of risk
reward scenario and what what so
basically what is the data that we're
working off of yes good question and
that's
exactly what you know some of the more
you know buy the book only the ncns nccn
guideline the zip cans you know come to
the patients with you know where's the
you know phase three data well
once again repurposed drug
um database the repurposed redo
project.org Myriad of other studies
um in that original paper by
um
care oncology where they looked at those
96 or seven glioblastoma patients they
called it stochastic or mechanistic data
which is really just the Collision of
all this cell culture data animal data
uh individual case studies Imaging data
population data all these things coupled
with the
you know low side effect profile
um and you know the easy way to monitor
these
uh they felt that you know this was
enough justification especially in a
serious disease like glioblastoma to
offer it you know in that scenario I I
think you know knowing that a lot of
phase three data it's somewhat
you don't want to be controversial here
but right people like Dr
ionetti's Stanford you know sites you
know statistical heirs that would say
most published randomized clinical
crowds you know are very fuzzy in their
predictability and so a lot of these
population studies
to me and to a lot of other caregivers
fulfill the sort of risk benefit or
therapeutic ratio equation namely
potential for benefit is very real
the
hassle Factor
video Doc low cost or keep medicines
generally
side effect risk are very low if you're
monitoring and and the potential outcome
especially with serious diseases is
pretty significant I I jumped into this
field based on my instincts based on my
hope to bring a better solution to a lot
of problems out there
now that I've been in it three to four
years I've seen outcomes
that just continue to convince me this
is real and it's not just
um one effect
excuse me
uh it's very powerful
it's most important to use a cocktail
effect many things at the same time and
try to stack them up front
um
I can give examples of like
different studies but you know one of
the
one of the
studies that I like is sort of a
mathematical model
I've found to
best use multi-drug therapies you know
we didn't really start fixing leukemias
and lymphomas until multi-drug therapies
were used and we've all heard of the mop
regimen when they start putting these
drugs together in creating intensely
they got better results so we're not
getting those results as much with solid
tumors and people commonly ask well I
kind of like the theory here and the
science here but I'm going to do them
sequentially I'm going to do the
chemotherapy up front or targeted
therapy up front I said no
mathematically it makes best sense you
safely stack them so that you
eradicate those cells before they mutate
and become resistant and so there's
models to predict how to do that and
that's constantly the discussion where
we're having to best stack them safely
of course so that we're not dealing with
recurrences down the road
yeah
yeah the the study that sort of the
Epiphany study for me was you you get
what's so interesting about these
medications is they're you know they're
widely prescribed for decades metformin
and there was a study on statins
on lipophilic statins where
there because so many people are on the
medications they're able to collect this
data and they just tracked women that
got diagnosed with breast cancer and if
they got us prescribed a lipophilic
Statin around that time the ones that
did had reduction in overall mortality
by over 38 so it's profound data that
just sneaks up out of nowhere and then
you realize that because it's a generic
medication there's zero Financial
incentive to move that through the
clinical trials to win an actual
indication so that's kind of this world
of repurposed drugs that we're stuck in
yeah and you know this isn't from Niche
universities MD Anderson published that
republished that data with their bigger
database you know last year and of
course
to kind of step in line with the
Conformity that's out there the next the
final statement is this deserves another
clinical you know a randomized clinical
trial best sort this out
well that's a three to five year
multi-million dollar endeavor
and people are dying from breast cancer
every day so you know we elect to jump
in and sort of safely you know layer
this on another study that we both like
I know is that's a simple study from
Taiwan you know that um where they have
a National Database and they had 70 000
people with uh With viral hepatitis
which is a strong
carcinogen for getting multiple cancers
not only just liver cancer which is very
common there and you know looking at
their database there was five thousand
people that happened to be on a Statin
and happen to be on Metformin five
thousand out of the seventy thousand
there was a bunch that were on one
individually now the those that are on
one either either one individually at a
modest reduction in cancer development
those that were on both
and that longer they're on both the
better the outcome they had a 28 to 70
70 to 75 reduction depending on the
cancer site and the development of those
cancers versus the general population
with uh with a viral hepatitis so you
know that's one of the reasons we use
some of this in our prevention trial for
non-cancer patients just because the
data is so strong but uh it's an
exciting area and um
it's nice to be able to bring people
some opportunities that are easy to
tolerate
yeah
did you did you want to touch more on
this idea of combinations Dr Meek um you
know we talk about this all the time not
only
the the data with with Lifestyle Changes
in combination with perhaps repurposed
drugs
um and and again in combination again
with with standard care therapies and
why that's so important
yeah so think about it
um you know like chemotherapies
generally work on the rapidly dividing
cells and if all of a sudden you induce
some mild starvation or you know
metabolic stress or you block certain
potentials become resistant certain
efflux pumps remember you know you start
to really you know kill a greater log of
tumor cells each cycle
and uh you know oncology students and
residents always look at sort of the
logarithmic you know reduction in tumor
cells and you got to get them to below a
certain level for the immune system to
generally clear it out because we're all
making mutant cells all the time and and
you know our body generally does when
it's not in a state of you know extreme
stress you know do a pretty good job in
cleaning it up so
you know I would say our cocktail effect
is not just learning prescriptions for
repurposed drugs it's a handful of what
we call foundational supplements that
have very minimal downside and nothing
but you know strong positive literature
for General Health you know to to
various you know functions in the body
in addition to that you know strategies
to
maintain muscle mass strategies to
maintain proper nutrition can work well
with you know other providers around the
country that are experts in ketogenic
diets and so forth and and then also
whole Myriad of other things you know
optimizing sleep optimizing you know
breathing to impact parasympathetic
balance optimizing you know mindset
optimizing you know having a purpose to
go through that difficult chemotherapy
you know your life goals are what I call
Mission alignment
you know to remind people that we are
tribal you know pack animals we gotta
lock hands with our friends and loved
ones that get through difficult times
successfully so you're trying to keep
all those issues front and center and a
gentle easy format seeing people
virtually low cost convenient you know
with good
additional care providers the cocktail
effect really makes a difference and you
know one of the reasons I got into this
is to try to better understand
why some people succeed in their
Therapies
and some people don't and I knew that it
came down to all these less measurable
factors that weren't really on
everybody's radar screen and I think
we're trying to bring some of that to
light
yeah
so so obviously many of these drugs are
required prescriptions so what uh what
are the safety sort of supervision
considerations you need to go into that
yeah so great question and um you know
people sometimes say well I don't need
to worry about that because that's a
natural supplement remember most drugs
started as sort of a supplement or from
some natural
you know Source you know metformin is
from the lilac plant
um
so we we try to remind people that
everything has to be detoxified and
processed through the liver that
includes supplements and more is not
always better and that Foods even need
to be processed through the liver and
that they need to be excreted through
the kidneys so we need to keep the
machine optimally working so we ask
people to submit their basic labs they
get generally in their local oncology
offices but those that want to do a
deeper dive under the hood we do a 12
lab panel or just the basic Labs if
needed to look at drivers of
inflammation drivers of insulin
resistance drivers of
um you know under methylation we look at
basically 10 basic
um
sort of laboratory profiles that we
think would be important optimize in any
cancer patient or in any someone anybody
in remission or anyone to kind of
prevent future Cancers and that's what
we call sort of the the mop calculator
the metabolic optimization protocol and
so we we then create a list of targeted
things to do and many times we'll drop
medicines we'll you know pull back on
certain medicines we try to tailor it in
the best we can with what we know
um and so that's sometimes news to
people because many people come to us in
their you know more is better and
they're already on 15 things and we need
to sort of dial in a little better
um there can be a lot of compounded
confounding interactions you know
sometimes people are doing like a you
know 5xu type chemotherapies a lot of IV
5fu which actually blocks an enzyme that
uses uh you know purines to make nucleic
acids but they're taking heavy dose
vitamin B's and B vitamins you know like
methylfolate that can sort of override
the benefit of that chemotherapy or
frequently people are
you know considering use of heavy
antioxidants during chemotherapy which
we don't know for cure but it may blunt
the effect of the chemotherapy because a
lot of chemotherapies work by being an
oxidant and you don't want to
you don't want to fix that as you're
trying to kill cancer cells another
common one that we'd sort of look at and
try to delicately and politically
correctly handle is a lot of people get
steroids before the chemotherapy to
diminish Nautica to maybe block allergic
reactions that could happen not always
and you know that of course drives
proliferation we have plenty of animal
models that show that it can dampen or
neutralize the impact of chemotherapy on
cancer cells or prevent you know
you know sort of a beneficial outcome
and animal models and in human models in
addition any induction of high cortisol
any stress-inducing
events can do that at least in animal
models so we try to remind people of
that and give them tools like breathing
like you know controlling what they can
control and release the rest and and
sort of kindly asking to cut steroid
doses uh you know we don't want people
walking the floors at night and having
high blood glucoses so we're constantly
sort of giving people strategies to sort
of dial in better on the therapy stuff
that's frequently not understood fully
in the current cancer clinics
um so it's kind of fun to kind of help
people through this
um I'd call it the economy of balance
and that is sort of having a bunch of
common things that you know that make
you feel well you know to try to keep in
balance as you go through this if you're
doing saunas Hyperbaric fasting
chemotherapy
you know you name it and you feel like
you ran a marathon every day you're
overdoing it your body is now
overrun and we need to dial back to
maintain you know good physiology good
muscle mass good sleep good energy do
you look forward to things in the
morning do you have joy so we're
constantly trying to you know keep
people centered because as we know there
is
too little of something is is bad too
much as something can also be bad so we
try to Center them and and that some of
those edges that are somewhat gray more
than black and white
yeah the U-shaped curve it seems to
always come up okay so we got about
seven minutes
um before I'm sure then we gotta we'll
get to some questions uh so I'm sure
people would love to hear
how you approach patient care what is it
what does it typically look like
yeah so great question and and I kind of
like the thought of building a good
foundation and start with a foundation
in so
as we talked about there's a lot of
potential repurpose drugs so we try to
go with drugs that have the most data
that have the most safety data that are
available in the US you don't have to
like go through some dark Market to get
that um you know that also have
bonuses that they help other chronic
diseases so we have a three to five
foundational supplements we have three
to four common pharmaceutical drugs that
we really have used a lot of and and
familiar with we start people
incrementally on those usually start
three or four at a time unless they're
in the they're having serious
problems with like potential cachexia
and we don't want to like do too much
too early we want to restore their
Vitality first and we we create some
goals for lifestyle as well and so
that's the bigger base and then we
through looking at their tumor markers
looking at their hearing about their
scans and uploading those we find out
how they're doing and if they start to
show signs of progression we add these
second-tier drugs that usually have some
hint of a benefit at
um you know maybe for their tumor type
prostate cancer breast cancer and we
keep adding incrementally we see an
impact additionally if we see side
effects we have sometimes transdermal
metformin versus oral we have other ways
to get medications in the body our
partnership pharmacies work with us
really nicely there and we you know add
additional drugs like some of the drugs
might be glycosamide dicaprintamol
um you know Ivermectin uh
basic over-the-counter stuff like
cimetidine like baby ant burn like uh
intraconazole like um
uh recently we put a patient on sonial
sodium phenylbutyrate which is a
glutamine blocker yeah but we were able
to so there's a lot of things that we
can add in a pinctured incremental way
um
because people come in and they want to
be on everything right off the bat and
then we sort of talk to them about
polypharmacy and dial back from that
right
puts us about five minutes early but a
few more questions and if you want
come back on Payton for the questions
one thing I will mention before we go to
the question in case it doesn't come up
you know this week I had a patient that
came to us and said
I got newly diagnosed breast cancer you
know we think it's just my breast you
know after some initial staging I'm not
going to do anything recommended and I
want to go purely to
sort of complementary therapies
integrative therapies alternative
therapies what do you want in a lot of
times in our nurses are heroes for this
as well
we say you know
this doesn't this has been a big and bad
as you might think
maybe you had a bad experience and
didn't really get educated properly we
really suggest you have a good honest
talk and reconsider you know removing
the tumor initially or
you know considering hormonal therapy or
getting on herceptin therapy because the
side effects are pretty low so we
constantly are a good sounding board to
redirect people to what we think we have
five veteran nurses and you know I've
seen a lot who
what we think the best care for them you
know some standard of care really
can fix a lot
some is more borderline and it's you
know benefit ratio another time this
week we had a patient that was
um
you know about three years out from
recurrent pancreatic cancer four years
out from diagnosis yes he's done well
he's fully vital
and the question was can we stop these
medicines I met him early in my care
work with patients and we we had a good
discussion he's metabolically very fit I
suggest that he do the whole metabolic
you know mob protocol Lab Set next time
and that we we dialed back on two of the
drugs on dose we keep in a Muslim going
because you know
how many people have long-term
survivorship from pancreatic cancer you
know the actual you know risk period for
recurrence is less known we had a
similar problem uh not this week but in
the past with the glioblastoma patient
she was
three and a half to four years out
you know she'd never recurred which once
again I never saw that in my first 30
years and uh we had a bunch more that
were in that one to three years out and
on her we elected to just hold the
course and say the meds we dialed one of
the meds back because uh
you know we're constantly trying to
learn from our patients but also
you know make decisions because the
downside of her taking that didn't seem
to have any you know physical laboratory
or any over downside and that's a
serious disease
however with a very favorable breast
cancer we might really dial off at two
to three years you know in a Curative
sense and put them into more of a
remission protocol
so just kind of trying to catch some
patient scenarios there
thank you guys so much for providing all
this information we have received a lot
of questions a lot of questions
um so right before we dive in though I
just want to note that there has been
some really great conversations going on
in chat so a round of applause to all
those because I was kind of like geeking
out over their conversations
um I do want to note to them that we do
have a Facebook group powered by Hill
navigator that we allow people you know
to connect over alternative therapies a
lot of topics that were discussed in
chat are often discussed on that
Facebook group as well as clinics and
some other things so we will go ahead
and post that link to the Facebook group
and the chat for them just so they know
so I just wanted to kind of announce
that because it's always good to connect
with the community of like-minded
individuals
um and then I kind of moderate that
group too and help out so
um now moving on to the questions that
we had submitted
um if I can I'll just go ahead and ask
you Dr Megan to just get started with
our first one says that I have just been
diagnosed I have two weeks before I can
see someone can I start the protocol
before I start with the plan suggested
by my oncologist
so we've had that come up before and you
know sometimes when you're diagnosed you
don't know the full extent of it and the
full details of it but uh you know we
have done that before and started ahead
of time once again we use a lower dose
and kind of a more narrow subset of this
in the prevention of
chronic disease and so yes we've had
people with
you know with high PSAs that never got
really a biopsy they're worried about
spreading the disease we've had women
with breast cancer who have read about
circulating tumor cells post-biopsy and
wanted to start on one of the drugs
has been has data to show it reduces
circulating tumor cells I wanted to
start on it before a biopsy we've had
brain tumor patients where certain sites
of the brain were too risky to biopsy
and even standard of care docs will
consider you know interventions in those
scenarios we've had lung cancer patients
who've had a biopsy and led to a bleed
or a pneumothorax a block a collapse
along and said I'm not doing any further
biopsies so yeah it comes up in a lot
fortunately our drugs are very
you know very mild in their side effect
profile
um generally Never Say Never Never Say
always generally and so yes that comes
up a lot and yes we do
all right thank you so much and yeah I
hear the concerns often on my end about
the biopsies and spreading and wanting
to have something started in the process
so thank you for acknowledging that
um also so we had a lot of questions
about phobenzazole as you know that is
like a very common topic with Joe
Tippin's story and I do a lot of calls
regarding that as well so I'm just going
to kind of group them together there's
three questions regarding febendazole
one specifically for prostate cancer and
asking if fabendazole can be effective
in curing prostate cancer or putting it
into no evidence of disease
so in Travis You Know Travis
Works armed on with many of these
researchers and
has seen everything heard everything
read everything so yeah jump in as well
yeah that's a pretty quick question hey
Doc I started panicure I started
you know fabendazole from
a website called healing something
um you know
yeah happy healers what should I do
and you know they're different by like
one one molecule and um from what I
understand you know in the laboratory
work with mice which doesn't always
extrapolate to humans that you know you
know there's not a clear winner as far
as Effectiveness on cancer I had plenty
of patients that come in who started on
forbendazole maybe the Joe Tippin's
protocol and have had what appear to be
responses you know where they're only
doing that differently in their ca19
went down or their PSA went down so and
but we also see that with mobendazole so
as a human doctor I can only prescribe a
human medication
um mebendazole we are able to get it you
know pharmaceutical grade meaning it's
tested with with Purity uh in the human
in in human pharmaceutical grade
the um pharmaceutical grade has less
attenuance or contaminants and it's more
exact in the percent dose that is
prescribed whereas food grade or animal
grade or less you know defined on those
issues so you could get more potential
contaminants in it
um the price of a bendosol is still
pretty reasonable through our lovely
compounding pharmacists curtainers they
get it from overseas and validate as
Purity so we try to use mobendazole but
patient I saw today was using
footbendazole and in the tippins
protocol so three to four times a week
and then using sort of a baseline
lebendazole dose so sometimes patients
decide to split the baby so to speak I
don't know which one works better
someday we might know that there's other
azoles as well albendazole and two
others that I'm aware of
now hopefully more research can go into
it because it's fascinating on my end
um but and so what do you think of
fabindisol as regards to its
Effectiveness as a treatment for a
spectrum of different types of cancer do
you feel like it works for all cancers
across the board or do you feel like
it's only certain cancers like say
solid-based tumors blood cancers things
like that
so thank you who whoever asked that I'm
meant to sort of incorporate that into
one of the general areas you know unlike
targeted therapies immunotherapies where
you have to have a certain genetic you
know mutation or snip to even qualify to
get that drug that being said sometimes
when people have a high percentage of
that mutation they don't respond some
people with a one percent level of that
mutation they respond which I believe is
a you know statement to The Fuzzy edges
of what we really know in addition
you're getting a sample from a biopsy it
could be different in another metastatic
site
what I'm saying and leading up to is
metabolic therapies are less targeted
less specific you know they generally
you know work to you know down regulate
the the the drivers that that elevate
your glucose or sugar in the bloodstream
as well as make you more sensitive to
your own insulin so you drop down igf
one and in insulin which are
emotional growth factors uh you know
mebendazole and some of the other drugs
also heat with the uptake of glutamine
one of the amino acids that can be used
Syrup can be used by cancer cells to
make energy in building blocks so in
general we start with a general
scaffold of three to four drugs that
work with all aberrant cells that are
um
that are dividing quickly and and sort
of overusing in Full Throttle you know
glucose and proteins to make energy and
uh so we we don't really have good data
on this drug always works with this drug
so we start with a general group and
then add to it there may be some animal
data like Johns Hopkins did a lot of
work with mobendazole
and their primary work was pancreatic
cancer
and brain tumors probably because those
were bad Cancers and if it worked with
those probably be good for other cancers
as well they believed in it so much they
changed the molecule slightly and are
spending with another company
um probably you know half a billion
dollars to look for a new drug
indication so yes we we aren't too
specific with the drugs we use they
generally work with all cancers or
hematologic colleague over in England
that hold me once when we're discussing
the myeloma patients they felt that the
hematologic malignancies could actually
respond better
than you know the solid tumors so
interesting you know
we try to layer them on in remission or
after bone marrow transplant and it's a
myeloma patient or a leukemia patient we
do not want to get into that delicate
period you know during the sort of
ablative bone marrow transplant because
of the demands on the liver and kidneys
but in maintenance we we certainly look
at it and consider it
great thank you for touching that
um so another the last about the
fabendazole but we can also touch base
just as repurposed medicine in general
um I heard that fabindazon webin
dissolved could cause cancer to come
back after a year or so can you address
that and then I also saw another
question asking if the same thing could
happen with repurposed medicine in
general if you know it could suppress it
and then you know it'd come back more
aggressive
so
you know that always gets back to the
chicken or the egg you know if
you know they
there's nothing in those drugs that like
are going to accelerate cancer growth
however if
and this happens routinely with standard
of care and all therapies if you knock
it down and then all you have left is
sort of the resisting clone that nothing
is
is working against and that's why we
sometimes use pulse therapy we we have
someone gets down to a remission State
and we will sort of layer on something
different
uh safe and different
and um it goes back to the mathematical
Theory to try to not allow resistance
develop but in cases where resistance
Hood developer might develop it looks
like all of a sudden something turned on
and um
so I can see why someone would think
that but we have no data to say that you
know if there's a shelf life to work for
a year or
it starts turning on cancer I think it's
just
what someone sees clinically and makes
that sort of assumption you know they
just think that
air cause cancer to rapidly spread and
usually the scenario was
you know somebody
was walking talking getting around and
then they weren't sure what was going on
they felt sick they opened their belly
they found cancer everywhere so the
sort of the they jump to the conclusion
that air make the cancer spread no I
just I didn't see it before with the
imaging test it was just required the
surgery to find it so I think it's one
of those things where it's it's not
cause and effect it's just something
that's been observed
thank you
um so what do you do if your oncologist
is not supportive of this
thank you for whoever brought that up
um that comes up a lot and uh you know
and we we now make sure we get patients
a you know a general summary of what we
recommended you know historically we
provided references for the different
cancers and whatnot however
we've had it all over the map we've had
oncologists who say oh my goodness thank
you
I believe in this I just don't you know
use it from my my position right here in
the University clinic or whatever
I've had others that said
good job but don't talk to me about it
we've had others that say I don't know
anything about that but
you know he got a serious chance to do
what you got to do we'll be checking
Labs we've had others that have said if
you pursue that
you know I don't want you we don't want
you here as a patient because you really
only need to do just what I suggest
that's the minority and we've had that
happen a few times and then patients
need to sort of
come to grips with their transparency
um you know they don't tell the doctor
everything they eat some people are on
Metformin or a Statin or other drugs for
other chronic medical conditions and
unless there's a allergic
contraindication they don't get taken
off those so some people sort of
you know finesse it in a way well you
know I'm gonna stay on these
and maybe I'll pull off this until I
finish it off there are protocols where
they want to know everything you're on
and you know they want to isolate you in
time
to only be on the standard chair plus or
minus the research drug or placebo
and so then you know people need to have
a heart to heart with their doctor and
decide
what they want to do there at the end
most people feel like my cancer my body
my problem my choice and sort of make
the decision that they feel they can
live with and what's best for them
within a zone of safety
thank you yeah it's a common question I
hear even you know whether it be remote
options we talk about on the phone or in
clinic options people are always afraid
of being dropped from the doctors from
doing alternative or you know
integrative options so
um thank you for addressing that and
another question it says is there a
metabolic clinic or is a Telehealth
option enough asking for a cutaneous B
cell lymphoma
so yeah I mean Travis and I probably
smile at this at one point we were
trying to
work with when we're with care oncology
before they merged with the bigger
company to do something there at Cedar
Sinai in in Los Angeles we had
you know sort of things lined up and
then the pandemic hit of course and
you know more things went virtual but um
what we do
virtual platform is great
I did a study once when I was
in the big hospital I was director of a
very big campus Center in the Charlotte
area and I asked people to fill out
survey on
how many people spend how many hours to
come to my new patient or follow-up
visit
and of course usually a spouse sometimes
a family member sometimes they didn't
drive so another child another family
member drove them and on average for
like a new patient it was four to five
hours and follow-up I might have been
two to three hours of course if they're
going there to get treatment infusions
that could even be higher you know we
can see
patient spouse
family members all over the country when
they're at work
you know in the time slot you know they
want
it's just very efficient you know we can
have
Pharmaceuticals and supplements
you know airdropped air mailed to their
doorstep in two days with our Superstar
Pharmacy Partners
um the cost is very low
because we'll have bricks and mortar
um you know they'll have to rip
infection
now Brandon I really miss walking people
to the door
hugging them shaking their hand getting
to know them better you know but you can
still acquire that and Studies have
shown this on a virtual format but uh
the good news is uh one of our
colleagues Nisha Winters who's a
superstar natural path the teacher of
many other doctors author of
cancer is a metabolic disease I believe
is her book
uh or no a metabolic approach to cancer
she is working up funding to do some
sort of you know bricks and mortar
Hospital small Hospital in Arizona so
someday there will be options to kind of
steer people toward a physical site if
it's needed there are other office type
stuff around the country
but I think we can do most of what we
need to do
through our platform here I'm certified
in Hyperbaric I recommend Hyperbaric on
the oxygen clinics around the country we
can get people leases
um those kind of things can can happen
without being in a bricks and mortar
location
all right I agree I think the option
here online is a great way and some
people just can't travel you know I I
see that whenever I talk with people
they have a hard time traveling um
whether it be for family or work
purposes
um so let's move on there's a question
in regards to Jane's book so I
understand you recommend for repurposed
drug areas what about other drugs and
supplements that can help cut off cancer
Pathways to nutrition I'm referring to
the information and how to starve cancer
yes Jay McClellan uh what a smart gal
her heart is bigger than Texas and I
know you know how big that is Peyton
um Travis and I have met her many times
uh we're actually on a panel called um
cancer Revolution and there's one R so
cancer Revolution with one r in the
middle
dot com and um you know and James on it
with with nature and other Walter Longo
from UCLA and I'm at segfried and some
people I don't deserve to be in the same
room with but somebody was asking
earlier about when the next one will be
so yeah yeah and so that the first it
says six or five part
series I think it's going to be on some
of the major
networks like Netflix uh but it's the
first part is coming out in September
but it looks really good with a lot of
cool background back to Jane's book she
is the triangle
we are a little more concerned about
poly Pharmacy you know if you and we
also
you know are concerned that you really
don't know for sure
it's all animal extrapolation what
pathway is this supplement or this drug
might impact or block or favorably
accelerate if need be and so we start
with the safer drugs it's more sort of a
exclusive versus inclusive route to
building the pyramid
and we
uh you know add on incrementally and so
we see a lot of people who
respond and remiss get into remission
very easily with a tighter protocol
and like a patient today went over
a very long list of things and we
decided because she was out quite a long
period he'd start splitting the baby
where she
sort of using about half of the
less determined less vetted supplements
on Monday Wednesday Friday and the other
half on Tuesday Thursday Saturday so she
could put her
you know metabolic load or her multiple
supplements in half and that's what we
usually do is we start getting out there
but
yes
um Jane and I have debated that going
out to dinner like do you smart and air
start narrow and build up or do you
start big and you know and see what
happens I always feel it's harder to
peel things off because you don't know
what's causing what generally so we'd
start incrementally and build up and
we're just a little bit of a different
approach
we'll take right thank you for answering
that
um so somebody asked about Ivermectin I
had some success with Ivermectin does it
go well with other repurposed
medications you work with
yes um it's on our like kind of tertiary
list you know it has some overlapping
impacts like mebendazole it's a
glycolytic it blocks um it's how they
think it blocked or worked with with
viruses it went to highly glucose
burning cells glycolytic cells burning
it in the presence of oxygen which
shouldn't happen and
um it shut down that metabolism these
are cells that viruses were trying to
hijack so to speak hijack get into their
DNA and sort of get them to you know
foolishly reproduce
um so the viruses could
spread
um I've had a few patients use it for
cancer one recently with prostate cancer
where he wanted to go big and bad with
it alone uh a guy that had a you know a
rising a rising PSA and he we use that
as sort of the
barometer for response piss actually
went up so we backed off of it and went
back to the core four and he's on that
now I've used it in other cases
um you know as we added on later on
it's a little bit hard to know the dose
you know ivermectin's very tolerable in
the easy doses that have been used most
recently
um for cancer some of the published
doses are quite a bit higher so we ended
up splitting the baby going with some
safer doses usually what happens is
you know they take it the mouse
milligram per kilogram dose and they
propulate it to humans
you know mice have a metabolism of seven
to nine times faster
you know we don't want to Nuke anybody's
kidneys so we try to be very judicious
with that and start incrementally lower
dose increase get CMP complete metabolic
panel and move forward but yes that's on
our list that's a long answer excuse me
and um but we don't start with it thank
you
great thank you and there's actually a
conversation going on in chat earlier
about Ivermectin so there was some
interest in you discussing yeah I work
oh we're gonna get shut down here
yeah it's okay
um so there is a few diet questions here
so I'm just going to kind of combine
them into one question
um I'm reading a couple books by uh
books about metabolic oncology where the
books really vary is the diet that is
recommended one recommends eating fish
and vegetables another stresses on
ketogenic diets what are your thoughts
and is Diet part of your protocol
yes yes and thank you for asking that um
we have a lot of people come to us in
their typical statement is hey Doc
you know I'm doing the impact cancer
diet finally I'm I'm juicing fruits and
carrots and beets and I'm doing you know
all vegetables and you know I'm weighing
110 pounds I'm five foot eight and uh
and I you know I'm raising concern as we
speak I'm like you know fructose then
glucose are like the favorite metabolic
inputs for cancer
and plant proteins come generally with
carbohydrates you know rice oatmeal
grains lentils the list goes on you know
a cup of lentils is 17 grams of protein
Untold but it's 30 grams of
carbohydrates so it's sort of you know
linked with carbohydrates and
carbohydrates is a stronger
signal to to mtour the proliferation
pathway and a less you know it shuts
down amp kinase the autophagy pathway
then protein and so we worry less about
driving proliferation by doing animal
protein because number one you get a
more complete protein number two it
assimilates better in the body the data
on certain
you know amino acids causing cancer are
very debatable when you peel off a dirty
population study epidemiology study and
really look at cleaner studies of using
non-processed animal sources of protein
so we try to recommend cleanly sourced
fats and proteins
limited carbohydrates you know if it was
the patient was Meek and we'd say you
need to do the meacon diet the meacon
diet is the diet that reflects you know
our personal likes and dislikes schedule
a work Family Life 80 20 do at 80 of the
time and be less flexible 20 of the time
emphasizing fasting proteins some
intermittent fasting always with the
lows floor that we don't want to get
into cachexia we see more people facing
that
you know plant-based diet that get into
cachexia cachexia is the weakening of
our muscle system and our immune system
it's thought to be responsible for 30
percent or more of the deaths in cancer
patients and so
we want to you know tread that type rope
and get people to maintain their body
you know composition it's been
musculature clean fats and proteins yes
animal proteins low carbs and so and
that's what some of our colleagues you
know Rob wolf
um
you know Dominic digastino
uh I would say oh Miriam calamian Nisha
Winters all those who are really into
the work here
you know kind of link up with that
strategy
um you know reduce the carbohydrates
first you know intermittent fasting is
another tool for that exercise on top of
that you know clean proteins clean fats
thank you for addressing that let's
check out a few more here I know we're a
few minutes over but there were a lot of
questions so we said that we would just
try to address as much as possible
um there were a few questions about
hospice if someone's on hospice
um so this one says my mother is on
hospice is she eligible for this
protocol
so thank you for bringing that up um
good question we you know Hospice in
general I was on the board of our local
hospice and
that level of care is near and dear dust
we have some great nurses that have
worked in that as well
um you know technically you're supposed
to have like you know zero to six months
of predicted life expectancy you know my
mom died early 2021 she was in hospice
19 months so we used to joke in our
family mom flunked hospice you know she
didn't hit that six-month Mark so you
really never know going into it I've
seen a fair amount of hospice patients
some that are looking pretty strong they
just decided you know I'm done with the
you know the standard of care therapy
for now hospice allows me to get some of
the palliative meds for free and care
you know without having to see everybody
yet metabolic intervention would be a
great opportunity for them and we see
those people sometimes doing very well
seeing a few patients that
were very close you know and it's those
of us who work in this field know when
you know when when the body is shutting
down usually unless they're very young
and they make a really good case in the
case of something like an aggressive
leukemia they want to try it you know to
see if they can stop this escalating
logarithmic growth of their cancer
you know we consider it but there are
times where we say you know I think we
need to just back off so it depends on
the patient situation more so than the
label of hospice and um
you know so if somebody can still
get up and Bop around the house and walk
to the mailbox and it's eating and you
know and it's got reasonable
functionality I think it's worth a
discussion
thank you for adjusting that yeah I
speak to a lot of people on hospice
myself whenever trying to navigate
options I mean it just really depends on
I think where the person's at some
people they're just
um very close you know While others
they've just been they've some have
opted on to hospice because they know
that standard of care options just
aren't there for them you know so they'd
rather get the support at home and try
other alternative therapies so thank you
for
there's some great benefits to hospice
too you
you know it helps patients don't pull
the I got to go to the ER room every
time something isn't quite right
and especially if they're at like a
assisted living or a senior care center
you know if
Grandma faints they're going to the ER
and that's a long day that never turns
out well right right yeah there's a lot
of things that can come from that
so we are kind of running out of time
here we all
um ask like two more questions and then
we will um start to wrap this up
um we still have quite a bit of
questions on here that we didn't get to
um however we will send an email with
more resources and a FAQ in the next few
days out to people
um so if we didn't get yours we'll try
to address them then
um so let me pick here
um two more
um let me see
so somebody was asking
um do you combine these off-label drugs
with things like IB vitamin C at the
same time uh would they not synergize
so I've used vitamin C is tied with
vitamin C so at those doses it becomes
an oxidant versus an antioxidant so it
creates a you know like an h plus
radical in the cell and some cells have
trouble
detoxifying that or sort of quenching
that and cancer cells are less well at
that less glutathione and catalase and
you know sod around to make that happen
so there's plenty of research that says
high dose vitamin C can kill cancer
cells it is a challenge what we call
hermetic challenge to normal cells and
so when you stack it with chemotherapy
or fasting or any other things
we all know that exercise kind of
weakens the body temporarily
to then make it stronger that's what we
call hermetic impact if you do too much
of that and I just high dose vitamin C
is a big hermetic hit
you can overwhelm the body so I usually
encourage people to use that more in a
lagging type way after
you know Big Time chemotherapy for two
reasons that affect the Hermetic effect
but also it's an hour and a half in a
chair costs a bit of money to do it
right you want to do it three to four
times a week get a certain blood level
dose so
I usually Advocate using that
kind of down the road
I also see that hyperbaric oxygen is
also a oxidant therapy and I think that
has my personal opinion as far as seeing
responses and looking at the literature
and I have a Blog on every one of these
different treatments at Folks at
forwardchuck.com for more specific
references clinical trials what's been
tested the results
um
I like Hyperbaric
you know they're about the same cost and
time commitment pepper Barrack does
great things at healing it because it
dumps so much oxygen and the plasma that
offloads at the small capillaries more
so than what happened with the red cell
it also
trigger stem cell regeneration a guy I
saw today he did his consult driving
back from his Hyperbaric talk about
flexibility hyperbaric treatment
he's a gastric stomach patient
and is young but he's gained 15 pounds
in a month doing lovely ketogenic diet
helped by Miriam calamian
and he's says I feel so good I'm working
full time and so I think that has a
little more dividends to pay for about
the same time commitment and price so I
usually stack them in that regard but
yes we consider it a lot we look at
their whole picture and try to be
targeted and how we apply it
thank you thank you for answering that
um and then for the last question
um what percentage of your patients
respond to the repurposed medicine
and our response might be you know no
evidence of disease or just you know I'm
suppressing the cancer maybe they might
not reach no evidence of disease but try
to respond to that in the best way
possible because I did see them that's a
great question and that would be what I
would ask
uh and of course
you know it's hard to answer that
because most of our patients are getting
standard of care along with this most of
them have already failed one or two
things so
at least in the standard of care world
you're into the
you know very low zone of response rates
and what
we see is that a lot of times things
that generally don't work well or work
at all too well you know that are third
on the list for like medicine breast
cancer colon cancer unemic cancer start
to work
and uh you know I hear it all the time
where
there are medical oncologists that works
for them locally says
I don't know why but you're 18 months
into a response and this stuff rarely
works for more than a short time
um and so
we that's sort of the measure of what
we're looking at now
had a patient email me yesterday
for the metastatic colorectal cancer
young guy from the Bay Area
he went to Stanford had 12 lesions on
his lung when he first walked up worked
up no deposit full rectal he could hey
Chuck you know I lost you when you you
know when you switched from Carol
oncology I want to growing up with you
I'm now four years Ned
and
you know this yeah there are people who
you know
never recur with stage four disease
however
you know I think there's more that I'm
seeing and maybe I'm just more a little
biased now but I I feel that if I use
you know critical judgment which I try
to do we see a lot more unusual cases
where people
crack the nut so to speak and get into
long-term remissions
and um you know ultimately we want to
get in a long-term remission from
chronic disease you know we're all gonna
at a certain age you know see some
failing systems with the science we know
now maybe that will change but our goal
is to turn these things into a chronic
disease if someone's got more of a
curable situation
you know get to the Cure quickly and
prevent recurrence and diminish
long-term side effects and
um you know
kind of switch from rarely survive to
thrive and then give back
thank you for addressing that I'm
assuming that they would just monitor
the status through their regular
oncologists like through scans you know
oh yeah yeah people still you know use
the normal tools you know and we
try to encourage people to
judiciously use those you know
if you got a good tumor marker go with
that don't re-pet scan every three
months 25 millisieverts that you don't
need to get
we actually have a you know a cocktail
that blocks some of the diagnostic
radiation that people get from you know
pet scans multi-site CT scans nuclear
medicine scans those kind of things
because those add up and sometimes
that's not really thoughtfully
considered in the standard care World
um
thank you for addressing that
um so yeah thank you both Travis and Dr
meekin for providing us all this Insight
um now that we are nearing the webinar
you know I just want to thank you for
taking our time and going a little over
and discussing um all these great
questions
um from everyone that was able to
participate and join in on this webinar
today uh thank you to all of you that
joined us for joining in on the chats
and having great you know discussions
there
um we'll also be just re-linking quickly
if my team can just throw again the
Facebook group link down there so they
can continue talking and the group there
were some great discussions so I hate
for you guys to be separated
um because they're sharing information
back and forth and someone sent them to
find out this information and see if I
can post it things like that
um so everyone's saying thank you in the
chat to you guys just so you know so
thank you all we will be um ending this
session now
um we look forward to seeing you and
talking to you all soon